This pamphlet is practically a sequel of The Dramatic Instinct in
Children, one of the units in the _American Home Series_. The two
should be studied together.

Children are naturally dramatic in giving expression to their ideas and
convictions. But they need guidance in order that this inborn capacity
for forcefulness, vividness, or charm may be realized. Supervised
practice in controlling the imagination is no less important than is
that of controlling impulses. To play a part in a little homemade
drama or pageant helps the child to find his place and to do his part
in the world’s work--and play. This pamphlet seeks to answer the
question: _How?_ as its companion undertakes to show _what_
this disposition is.

The dramatic method in teaching has already found its way into the best
schools. It will have an increasingly large place in the best homes.

It should be carefully noted that this brief study is not concerned
primarily with amateur dramatics or theatricals. The author is
not trying to tell parents how to train their children to become
professional actors. He desires, rather, to point out how parents can
help their children develop the latent powers of expression.




DRAMATICS IN THE HOME

  “I called the little pool a sea;
   The little hills were big to me;
     For I am very small.
   I made a boat, I made a town,
   I searched the caverns up and down,
     And named them one and all.
   This was the world and I was king;
   For me the bees came by to sing,
     For me the swallows flew.”
                        --_Robert Louis Stevenson._


  Dramatic Play and Games--Serial Dramatic Play--Folk
    Dancing--Dramatic Parties--Pantomime and
    Tableaux--Dramatized Work--Home Discipline Through
    the Dramatic Instinct--Clubs Based on Imaginative
    Play--Dramatic Self-Government--Dramatics in the
    Church--Summary--References.


AT the outset, a clear distinction must be made between the teaching
of dramatics as made use of in theatricals, whether private or public,
and the cultivation of dramatic imitation or its use in the enlargement
of the child’s general knowledge and experience. The main purpose of
this essay is to show in what a wide range of activities this dramatic
impulse expresses itself wholesomely in a child’s life. The earliest of
these is through dramatic play.


DRAMATIC PLAY AND GAMES

It is astonishing how large a proportion of play is dramatic in
character. Mr. George E. Freeland watched a baby of two and a half
years for a whole day and noted that he engaged in fifty-four different
imaginative games. It would be pretty hard, therefore, to enumerate all
the ways in which a child of three, at the period when imagination
seems to awaken, utilizes this faculty in play. This is the time when
the child imitates the acts of older people; therefore, whatever tiny
implements or apparatus he can use for that purpose are acceptable to
him.

Of the ready-made toys, toy furniture for the house, the sand pile for
outdoors and the doll for both are most useful. “The doll,” as Sully
tells us, “takes a supreme place in this fancy realm of play. The doll
is an all-important comrade in that solitude à deux, of which the
child, like the adult, is so fond.” The complete adaptability of the
doll makes it an ideal means for the puppet play of idealism. “A good,
efficient, able-bodied doll, like the American girl’s,” says Joseph
Lee, “is at home in any situation in life, from princess to kitchen
maid, to which she may be called. And one doll in her time plays many
parts; she has to, or lose her job.” Besides this, so perfectly does
the doll mingle with the child’s own personality that it produces and
maintains a complete feeling of oneness.